For my second project, I decided to create project that reflects the idea of youtube not censoring certain videos for kids and how some of those videos potentially contain disturbing aspects to them. The goal of this project was to show the user that even if you search for a particular thing within the internet, following that research kids, teens or adults might stumble upon things that may come off as disturbing. In order to work the website, the user must say that they “want to watch” a show from the following list on the screen. Little do they know, that those images/gifs are not censored by the video hosting service that is before them.

My inspiration for this whole project stemmed from James Bridle’s essay entitled “Something is wrong on the Internet”, and my experience at seeing kids watch disturbing things on the internet without them realizing it. I wanted to showcase Bridle’s idea of violent and inappropriate contents and show to the user that, videos like these exist within the internet, and are being sponsored for kids.

The making of this project, to me, was also a learning process because I got to learn various things about CSS and html that I had no clue how to do previously. Additionally, starting up a new project from scratch remains not in my comfort zone but the fact that I had thought of various ideas to make this project, gave me a little boost towards the making of the project. Thankfully, with the prototype of the “Assignment 3” activity we had done in class it really helped extend my knowledge towards the use of voice commands and helped me conduct my own code using CSS, HTML and both jQuery and jQuery UI.

My favorite part about working on this project was working on the user’s interactions/actions. Making the user interact with the web page was super exciting and a fascinating experience. Also making the page speak to the user was fun to do as well.

While this project remains simple, I believe its functionality, successfully reflects the idea of James Bridle’s essay in a metaphorical and creative way.
